why from unbounded wildcard to does not generate an unchecked conversion warning?
Think i ask this question before but still don't understand to a certain degree.
From raw to?
> - no unchecked conversion warning.
Understood since both are reifiable type.
From raw to?
extends Object > - unchecked conversion warning.
Understood since?
extends Object > is a non reifiable type.
From?
> to?
extends Object > - no unchecked conversion warning.
Why?
Since the former is a reifiable type and the latter is not.
I see this as similiar to clause 2.
? means it can be any subtype.
Every subtype of that will always extend Object.
I believe you wouldn't have a problem if you went from?
extends Number to?
extends Object either.
? and?
extends Object are actually the same thing, and should be interchangeable.
Actually, since List?
extends Object is a super type of List?
(vice versa), if it ' s safe to convert List to List?
, it should also be safe to convert List to List?
extends Object.
The spec requires unbounded wildcard? in some places, while the twin brother?
extends Object is not mentioned (therefore forbidden).
There ' s no theoretical reason for that ; the language designers probably reasoned that?
is enough for practical use cases.
For example, in 5.1.9 Unchecked Conversion, converting raw G to G T1 ..
Tn generates a mandatory compile-time warning unless all Ti=?
. This is a little too harsh ; a counter example :
the conversion from x to y is safe, and the warning is really unnecessary.
It is possible to relax the rule to exempt all safe conversions.
We know it is safe to convert raw G to G ?..?
; furthermore, if G T1 ..
Tn is a super type of G ?..?
, converting G to G T1 ..
Tn is also safe, and should be allowed without warning.
This certainly makes sense.
However, checking that G ?..?
is a subtype of G T1 ..
Tn is not a trivial task ; the language designer probably said, to hell with it, it ' s not worth the trouble to do this for unchecked conversion, which is not an important part of the type system anyway.
